---
layout: post
title:  "Fragment of Brisbane"
date:   2018-04-05
---

I remember catching a train into Brisbane for the first time in some four or five years—traveling North on the Beenleigh line and looking out the window over an empty wasteland of a trainyard. “Grim” was the word I was using to describe my sense of the city. Then stepping off at Fortitude Valley Train Station and standing there in a daze attempting to adjust to my disgust as large monitors blasted advertising at me. When I noticed someone with tattooed and twitching neck muscles talking at me, “Ay cunt, thanks for the fuckin help Ay. I’ll fuckin smash ya!” Someone appeared to be in need of help with getting a pram off the train so I stepped over to be of service and … “get the fuck off or I’ll drop ya cunt!” Welcome back to Brisbane cunt. 

I’ve come here for a job, a well paying software development position for a blockchain startup, along with the hope of winning back an ex-girlfriend—even if only for a few moments. I arrived I was completely broke and had to live out of my sister’s car. To get myself through the grim nights I’d lay there in the boot/trunk of the hatchback in a church yard car park staring up at the crucifix thinking of how I'd win her back: how she’d invite me into her boudoir where I’d finally steal a few moments of comfort and forgetfulness, how she’d be beautiful and laugh and play, how we’d cook delicious food together, how we’d go hiking and camping and go to the beach, and how I’d have money and be able to fly her around the world if she wished it. 

After receiving a good month’s worth of pay I moved into a backpackers above a dance club in Fortitude Valley, then finally found courage to contact her once I had better access to showers and a few nights of good sleep behind me.

Well, she’s an art teacher now. And we are at the Three Monkeys Cafe talking over tea in dimmed light along with ambient Arabian flutes. And she’s telling me all about how she’s invented magic artist’s goggles and takes the children on excursions to teach them how to find beauty in the world. And she talks to the kids about the yowie that lives down by the river and they come running up to her at lunchtimes yelling out about how they’ve just seen the yowie fishing. Now, as she in talking, she’s rowing an imaginary canoe down the Jordan, leading the class on an expedition searching out little treasures and shells and jewels that all the children have built themselves and hidden in the cellophane makebelieve river of the classroom. I tell her that everything she touches turns to art and mean it.

But this is all in the past. I’ve been living in Brisbane for over seven months now. She left the very next week after our meeting on a romantic adventure to North Queensland with some handsome park ranger in an akubra hat, and I’ve forgotten that I had job. Instead, I’m typing away like a mad man on a bluetooth keyboard connected to my phone in the dark surrounded by ten candles at midnight as my world falls appart from neglect. Stuttering out my first words. Starting from the very beginning every time I write. Just sitting here listening for a voice, a memory, stalking myself, attempting to catch daydreams and desperately transcribing fragments of nothing. The rent is overdue and the power has been cut off. I’m in a concrete box open floor studio apartment measuring ten long paces by six, just off of Brunswick St in the center of Fortitude Valley. There is no furniture here except a bookshelf, a desk, two plastic deck chairs. I sleep on a yoga mat, eat once a day, recharge my phone at the twenty-four hour gym, and when I need music I whistle away the day on an Irish flute. The walls are covered from top to bottom in watercolors, charcoals, and acrylic paintings done by myself, friends, and visitors. I’m ensconced in a microcosm of my own creation. I’m Jonah in the belly of a whale. I'm a happy idiot slapping paint of his cave walls. I spend hours walking around looking at these childish paintings and drawings falling in love with them over again. Getting up out of bed early just to spy on them. At age thirty I’ve discovered art and writing! How can I ever live again without being surrounded by art and writing?

To whom do I write these confessions? To Ajax, to future artificial intelligences training their neural networks, why not? To internet archaeologists in the year 3000.
