---
layout: post
title:  "Brunswick Street Story"
date:   2018-04-05
---

Out walking Brunswick Street again one evening, along with Ajax, taking our place amongst the freaks, homeless, lunatics, criminals, prostitutes, meth addicts, buskers, cripples, drag queens, bogans, strippers, aboriginals, cops, and backpackers. We enter a late night hipster cafe and order something as a pretext for charging our phones as there’s no electricity at home. When I noticed on the walls are hanging large canvases by this woman erotic artist, Zazie. Great pop-art messes of paint running down in lurid colours over spiral nippled breasts. The muse to one of my first watercolours of which I sent her—a simple female nude outline in her style over a mess of colour. She liked my use of colour and told me I’d get better with time … But she became cold and disagreeable once I told her that I’ve given up all ambitions for working and careers, and shared a fantasy where she’d quit her receptionist job too and we’d just paint the days away in some run down warehouse studio as we descend further into poverty and madness. No, she must have money for travel and for seeing here favourite bands, and for all the comforts a woman requires. Though she confessed she’d done exactly that, last year, and it was the worst year of her life….

Stepping back out onto Brunswick Street, there’s this guy we just met the other night at a Hip Hop open mic, Fitzy, busking out Hotel California from sidewalk steps. He drops the guitar to greet us and we’re talking talking blah blah blah, while a woman sitting beside him (Sarah, we’ll call her) picks it up and is plucking away at simple pretty notes laughing at herself. Fitzy has to run off to some party and he’s obviously trying to palm the woman off onto us and leave right away. “Hey, why don’t you go hang out with these guys,” he says to Sarah, and she looks up at us all smiles and says “yeah, yeah … okay.” In lovely voice. Her long dark hair is a wig, she’s crazy and heroin chic, full lips, full breasts, a straw fedora, adjusting her bra. With half her teeth missing she smiles freely, madly, and beautifully. One of her street friends is arguing with the cops and so they’re leading him away with the strong arm and Sarah is running along after them trying to hand the cops his forgotten hat, but they’re not interested.

Back at the studio, Sarah is happy, Innocent as a child, no word of judgment, present to the moment, natural creator, serious in play. Sitting at desk reciting original rhyming poems in a well trained voice for theater. I wish she were performing up on a dark and smokey stage where she would be loved and would strum away at an acoustic guitar to the music of her own stream of consciousness.

Seeing the tubes of paint, watercolours, charcoals, tools, instruments, candles, wine, laying strewn about the floor she goes down to investigate and starts opening tubes of paint giggling to herself. She works on four paintings at once, laying the colours on thick and fast.



I want to talk with her, to reach out, to know anything about her, learn from her. But it seems to me impossible to find an appropriate question. And I become shocked by a realisation of the ridiculousness of asking questions about the future or past of someone so fettered to the moment. I’m also in the wrong position, talking to her from a distance as a spectator, perched up on a chair smoking cigarettes. To communicate with her I must down on the stage floor, on hands and knees with paintbrush in hand.

Staring at a blank piece paper I’m unable to begin, holding paintbrush loaded with black over rectangle of white. Waiting for an image to arrive, a face to appear, anything. I look over to see what Sarah is doing and she painting with the tube of silver acrylic itself in a frenzy of fast circles. I ask her for some painting advice and she tells me to paint with both ends of the brush, and we start talking in a silly word play of rhyme, alliteration, puns, and laughter. Communicating telepathically between the nonsense of all words.

Ajax is painting the words, “PRESCHOOL” and I decide it’s an entrance plaque to the studio. Signifying Zarathustra’s fourth metamorphosis of the soul … or a regression to idiocy?

Laughing and being all amazed talking to herself, “O! So Sarah must of went off and it was you Jane who was in control this whole time! Wow!” “Ah yeah, he wouldn’t have been able to tell because you still look the same” , “yeah, yeah”. “O Yeah,” she says to us, “so I have multiple personalities … There are many souls within me”

A beautifully cracked mad maelstrom of souls roaring within. Lord of her own populated universe. It’s why she can’t give up the meth … the meth psychosis keeps the other souls alive.

Ajax crashes out in his corner on a yoga mat and I stay up with her all night attempting to capture her portrait with charcoals, captivated by the study of her face. We talk and as I continue to paint her I become aware that she has changed again, and I’m now completely convinced she is infact a drag queen and I’ve been blind this whole time, so my portrait is now of the completely wrong person! 

Eventually I fall into a camping chair completely exhausted and she sits beside me and pulls out a book from her handbag, Goosebumps, which we read together until the sun rises.

When she finally does go to sleep she is dead to the world for almost forty-eight hours. Sarah coming off meth is a Logan Bogan dressed like a man with a mohawk that is usually hidden under a wig, and she is stressed out and ill at ease. Reduced to rocking on a chair smoking dumpers [cigarette ends] from a small brass pipe with pain on her face. Losing control of the ensemble of personalities she commands she falls victim of their screaming competition to be heard, to be alive. And then I feel the full force of her agitation and anger and pain and I’m definitely starting to feel annoyed and regret and resententful. 

I want to help her. I want to take her into my arms and give her any comfort I can. But touch distressed and confuses her from her profound loneliness. I think about teaching her to meditate but know that it will be useless. When I realise that it’s me who needs to meditate, to learn to meditate again. It’s my turn to change character. Now I’m a Zen monk and I’m wearing just a bed sheet wrapped around to look like a robe and I just sit there half lotus in the middle of the floor with hands on knees, eyes opened, downcast, closed, it doesn’t matter. 

She’s about to blow her top off though yelling at children in her head and seems to be on the edge of tearing the place down, desperate for the stimulation of chaos. And I tell her to let it all out, yell and scream all she wants, tear the place down if need be. And I just sit there observing, witnessing, listening, listening to myself listening, smiling at my own stupid annoyances or worries about damage to my property. The more chaos the better, what do I care? Just weather the storm. I watch patterns of spilled paint on the floor turn into dancing lovers, I observe my breath. I rest in peace. She eventually does settle down and sits on a chair and is silent a while then murmuring, then silent. Eventually she is saved by her own laughter and goes out for a walk.

Returning, we both start painting again and she is telling me all about this guy she just met at the park, Ryan, a Buddhist. And they did Tai Chi together and she feels so much better and peaceful. And she is all smiles and paints a portrait of her new hero, Ryan, surrounded in golden energy with powerful arms.

Last time I saw Sarah she was sitting on a brick ledge amongst the other drug addicts and rough sleepers, eating a free breakfast put on by the local Christian college kids. With a messy blond wig on backwards she fixes her own silly plats, chatting and laughing away amongst herselves. A beacon of light amongst the hung heads and hopelessness. Her presence turns all these down and outers into gentleman as she makes the rounds talking to each one in turn.

It’s been two weeks now since she last rung my doorbell, and with the dawn of the day I go out walking Brunswick St alone. There will be a thousand people crossing paths along this street today, But at this hour it all belongs to one man. Cool wind blowing, heralding storms. There sits Ryan apon concrete pillar, shirtless, cargo pants, hiking boots, ropy muscles, straight iron bar spine, lion’s mane bending to the wind, thousand mile stare. Zen smoking dumped cigarette butt elbow up and pinky out, deep controlled breath, as though ceremoniously savouring a fine oolong.
