---
layout: post
title:  "Writing to Myself"
date:   2019-04-24
---

I’m here again at a blank page with nothing to say and no recent dreams to record within my new journal. Well fine! Then be silent! Be grateful for an empty mind and just enjoy the scratching apon paper and the spilling of ink running across blank pages. I’ll write in fine cursive and par chance the curve of a letter will begin a new drawing or new understandings. So now I must paint because all of the words in this world have become so insufficient, even the ones I haven’t to learnt yet. There are not enough words in this world to tell a true story and so all of my writings ring false and fictitious. And why is it now that all of my writing repeats and is so repetitious? Perhaps it's because I’m trying forever to remember to remember to live in the moment. So it never would matter where I begin as I always came back to where I am, to myself and this moment. What matters is that I start! This I tell myself everyday. To begin! It’s a new beginning. That is my practice. That is what I practice every day. A new beginning, starting at the same place, an empty page. Here, where I empty myself so that I may become full again. And thus I repeat to myself over and over, so that I may remember what it is that I am doing, why I am here, and who on Earth it is that I am. Ahh yes, I’m here at McDonald's, it’s as good a place to start as any. So I try and remember all of my morning meditations and mantras, along with black coffee, free wifi and power. As good a place as any to remember. Remember to breath from your belly like a baby, walk around barefooted and swing from tree branches. Now, now, now. The time has come and you are the chosen one! The emergency of the moment calls out to you on your inexorable march towards death and true madness. Look! Look out upon the day and the night and let your laughter ring out across all of time and forever after. Time, time, time. The time of your death is come and awaiting. Eternity has found you in this moment and ready. The horrors of your death are the deaths within life (the waking deaths, the zombies) and not the death of the body. Live! Live forever more simply and give away all your possessions. Give freely and the well of creation will become inexhaustible to you. So speak I with my collage of phrases that come down to me from masters and ring out through all ages. With words from the bible and letters from ancient Rome I commit fraud, thievery, and treason in an attempt to gain unto power. Here again, typing fast, eternal winds blowing, frantically fighting, spinning at wheels, so that I may be allowed to walk through this world as my own master. Out! Kick out of the womb. Spit out all that has come unto me that isn’t mine to possess. I reflect. I reflect myself onto this page so that I may see myself and the stories that I tell to myself about myself everyday. Through this process of self annihilation and self study I empty my mind of my word viruses, of the spelling of spells and of the words of my own and of so many other people, my masters, who thus control me. And then my pen slipped and a curve of a line was created and became a neat circle, and it was the circle of eternal return and I wondered and craved for immortality. But heaven is on earth, and immortality of the soul is obtained with awareness of the eternity within each moment. And as I died I saw forever into all time and was immortal. So I come back to this moment just to discover what it is that I’m doing, my destiny and the meaning of why I’m it is that I’m writing.
