---
layout: post
title:  "DMT Death Trip"
date:   2019-03-26
---

I first encountered dimethyltryptamine down in that labyrinthine virtual underworld that is the dark web, searching for something to buy with the Bitcoin I'd been gifted by an anon from the #anonOps Internet Relay Chat room back in 2009---back when whole Bitcoins were play money and Guy Fawkes masks were the thing.

After initially recoiling in horror from my introduction to the dark web and shutting everything down when seeing so directly into the darkest and uncensored aspects of mankind. I became more and more obsessed with reading the advertisements for various illicit drugs---including speed, steroids, weed, nootropics, and psychedelics. But it was an out-of-this-world transiate domain for DMT that so fascinated and obsessed me. I was promised a short, safe, and non addictive fifteen minutes of chemically induced religious ecstasy, a glimpse into the occult mechanics of consciousness, and temporary enlightenment. All for such a very low price! The product image on the site was of a tiny pile of clear DMT crystals, apparently extracted from an ayahuasca vine from the Amazon jungle where shamanism was still a thing. The webpage was all embellished with technicolor fractal geometric Aztec iconography. There were rudimentary notes on mysticism, awakening, higher consciousness, and safety procedures associated with ego death. Information apparently passed down from the ancient mad shamans of old and sent out through the optic-neural-nerves-fibre of the internet to every wanna-be cyber-psychonaut who so desired it. Information about death and after-death, the meaning of art, free will, consciousness, what is meant by the soul, and historical notes on traditional usage. All of this was completely and diametrically opposed to my then disenchanted, rational, robotic, autistic worldview where art and religion were but stupid noise to a child who worshipped the logic of the machine, where the word God was used only by ignorant fools. Mathematics, Logic, and science was the thing. Reading further I was informed that five percent of the the proceeds would go directly to protecting the Amazon jungle and its native peoples. Such an ethical deal! Repayment of my negative karma for buying drugs online was included in the price.

A few days later a small package arrived at my doorstep, discreetly stamped with a familiar geometric sigil just under my address and alias. The package contained a set of marker pens and Inside the empty chamber of one was a ziplock bag of the crystals wrapped in a note. With fear I hid them inside the case of my computer, where they stayed for six months.

I remember sitting alone at the centre of my then empty hospital-fluorescent-white cubic studio apartment, in the center, breathing deeply and deliberately, calling up all of my courage and calm. I’d packed a freshly cleaned glass water pipe with a thin layer of dried and ground blue lotus (used as a burning agent), gently placed the crystals on top, then covered them with more of the blue lotus herb. Then I held the loaded pipe to my mouth and began attempting some relaxation and deep breathing exercises. Sitting with crossed legs, my heart beating against the rib cage of my chest as I advanced towards ego suicide.

I read quietly from the included note entitled Self-annihilating Talk, “I am not my thoughts, I am that which observes, the witness, the all-seeing I, the axis centre of nothing around which the world turns; I am not my fear, I am not the thoughts that swim across the lake of consciousness. Let it all pass on by until nothing remains.”
Finally telling myself that all great knowledge is acquired only at great risk, and pledging my allegiance to the universe where I acquire the DMT knowledge, I draw in deeply and calmly to the cracking sparks of the water pipe. The exhaust vapour flowed out in an azure of tribal tattoo ink pattern that permeated all space. I placed the water pipe down between my legs and let myself fall back onto the bed. Further I fell down, down through the bed, into the bedrock of the back of my mind. The world gave way; the dream began.

To be continued. 
